hello and welcome to an original you try
this production today I'll be teaching
you how to get you the camera to follow
the player in game maker this can be
done in light or pro it doesn't matter
and so the first thing you need to do to
get your camera to follow a player need
to have at least a player object at
least a player object they need to have
a roof now my room is really long to
show you that it's size growing and it's
custom designed to show you guys that
its side scrolling so you guys can see
the whole thing because its pretty long
it's like 3000 its pretty long so yeah
so to get the camera to follow the
player you want to go to the inn or any
room they choose make sure it's big
enough to show that it's le
side-scrolling one go to views tab in
the room you want to enable the use of
use make sure use 0 is directed visible
with room starts now here you can
customize the view from customize the
width so right now mine is that all it
turns off 640 by 480 it shows of you
right here so I can customize it make it
3 30 barn wants to leave mine at 640 by
480 that's good you can just leave this
because this will change the position or
where it is so I see mine is right here
so I customize this let's say like 100
it's changed positions already so it
will show ahead of me instead of showing
you let's do that it here oh I guess and
let's see court on screen you can just
leave that as it is let's make sure it's
the same as in you because then it might
pour it on the screen like maybe like a
little mini map of some sort and so we
don't need that so this we would have
640 by 480 here we have object following
want to set to your player object object
player
now as you can customize this part right
here horizontal border and vertical
border this show so when you're the
bigger the border the closed circle on
farther your player can be from the edge
of the screen when it starts growing so
right now run instead it's 32 so that's
my player was saying hold on me just
show you that again so it's my player
was per se right here the screen would
not start scrolling until he was right
here like 32 pixels away from the edge
of the screen then would start scrolling
so that wouldn't be much fun because
you'd be so close to the edge that you
couldn't see anything so we can adjust
this by changing the horizontal and
vertical border you can change this to
like let's say 100 pixels like okay 200
pixels so our player has a warning of
when the screen it starts to scroll and
so yeah that's basically how you got
your camera to follow the player I'll
show you what it looks like in the first
ever game maker retry this Olympics ah
okay here we have the first ever we try
this game maker Olympics and the crowd
goes silent thankfully try this to begin
the national it'll be nice to get
jump over the Cosby said grace ah the
screen starts to scroll oh can you make
it oh can you make it oh okay she's like
an impossible task can we try this make
each he goes back to look for jumps
jumped again double job I should have
thought that through I said actually I
should have done that through intensity
oh you'll have a back-up plan for this
no I don't well this green did scroll
then case yeah I really should have made
a backup plan for this what oh whatever
screen does scroll I guess I give that
like a 6 out of chance on a holistic
grading finish well in any case this has
been an original retry this production
hope you enjoy don't forget to subscribe